Abstract – Student motivation is a key predictor of successful educational outcomes. The more knowledge younger students gain, the more opportunities will open up to allow those individuals to achieve better possibilities in career and personal growth. With the technological resources available today, anyone can engineer solutions to assist and motivate education. The purpose of this project was to design and develop a two-dimensional iOS educational game to provide a more enjoyable experience for learning. This solution aims to divert most of the users’ attention to the actual gameplay, while using minimal effort to answer questions based on the category they selected. This document outlines and describes the process of developing this game. This process includes background research, design, project management, implementation, user testing, evaluation and development based on user feedback.

The honours project module is an opportunity for fourth year students to independently build a piece of specified software based on predefined projects, an extension of a previously made project or a project of your own choosing.

For this project the author decided to greatly extend on one of his original ideas ‘Swim Tim’, a basic two- dimensional endless runner game. Using some of the same graphics, the author completely re-designed the code and functionality to fit the purpose of the project.

‘Swim Tim: Education’ is a fun, 2D endless runner game designed for children. The player controls Tim, the main character, with the goal of attempting to swim as far as they can while gaining as many points as possible. Throughout their journey, players are encountered with enemies, each having unique characteristics which they must avoid. Players are also encountered with a boss, where they must answer a question based on the category selected to defeat it.

The aim was to create the two-dimensional endless runner game using the following technologies: Unity, a cross-platform game engine developed by Unity Technologies which is primarily used to develop two-dimensional and three-dimensional video games
for consoles, computers and mobile devices. Xcode, an integrated development environment (IDE) for macOS containing a suite of software development tools developed by Apple. These two technologies combined allow anyone to develop a video game and export it to any apple product including macs, iPads and iPhones.

There were many smaller objectives which contributed towards the main objective. This involved learning about many different aspects of developing and exporting the game, such as developing using C#, mobile devices, Apples mobile operating system (iOS), game development using unity and using Xcode to export the game.

The game was developed with the goal of combining high resolution graphics and intelligent enemy characteristics, while providing minimal user input in order to create a simple, quick and fun playable game for children. This document outlines the journey and process taken by the author in order to develop such a game.
